Now that we've seen Ansible in action,
we can get into the code and design a playbook.
A few moments ago,
I used an Ansible playbook to set up Prometheus on a completely clean EC2 instance.
I did it all with a single command,
and it finished all the tasks in a few seconds.
But what all goes into a playbook to make that possible?
Let's take a look at Ansible's playbook structure.
Here in my AWS console,
I've got a new EC2 instance set up with my key pair.
I have already downloaded the PEM file for that key pair.
I've opened up port 9090 to the public on this instance,
and I've got a host name generated by EC2.
I've done nothing else at all to this server,
it's a blank server.
I'm going to copy the host name to the clipboard.
Now I'm going to add my host name to my inventory file.
Now let's run my Ansible playbook,
and see what happens.
In the background, this Ansible playbook is updating dependencies,
setting up the server,
adding environment variables, and
installing a server software that we can later view in the web browser.
There, it's all done.
Now if everything work properly,
I should be able to go to my browser,
navigate to the same host name,
and add Port 9090,
and see the web server running.
Let's add the host name here to our browser and add Port 9090.
There it is, our web server is happily running.
What I did in just a few seconds with
a single command would normally take me several minutes at least.
That one command can do it 1,000 times.
Now that we've seen Ansible in action,
we can get into the code,
and design a playbook.
A moment ago, I used an Ansible playbook to set
up Prometheus on a completely clean EC2 instance.
I did it all with a single command and it finished all the tasks in just a few seconds.
But what all goes into a playbook to make that possible?
Let's take a look at Ansible playbook structure.
Ansible calls its main entry point a playbook,
which comes from the sports world where coach has a book full
of plays or instructions that the player should follow to win the game.
Ansible playbooks have plays which are independent set of instructions.
You could have plays for many things like updating a web server,
migrating a database, installing dependencies,
or copying production files.
There are a few things you're going to need to watch out for.
I left you some notes in the text below the video to move you in the right direction.
One of those things is authentication.
You're going to need to know the default username for your instances in EC2.
For example, if you're using Ubuntu,
the username is Ubuntu.
I gave you a link below to find
the username if you're using a different operating system.
Something else is targets.
This is where you tell Ansible playbooks what machines to connect to and configure.
Another thing is the concept of roles.
It sounds like roles as in authorization and permissions,
but it has nothing to do with those.
It has more to do with actions to be performed.
A role is a way to divide up your configuration code into smaller,
more maintainable, manageable chunks.
Using roles is the preferred way to design and build Ansible playbooks,
instead of filling up your main file with all your plays directly.
Let's look at my code that I use to install Prometheus.